Javascript

Objects in js are free formed, i.e., You don't need to have a class to create an object.
Objects in js are created independently.
for example:
var myObj = {}; //This will create an empty object, holding no properties or behaviour.

Objects in js works like a Map in java.
As there is no concept of Classes in js, it's not structured and hence, all the properties of any object are publicly accessible.
In js, accessing a property of any obejct, which does not exist, will return undefined. while If we do the same in java or any class based OOP language will give a compile time error.

Object Literal Notation, To create an object with properties upfront, below is the Syntax.

var myObj = {
"prop1": "Hello",
"prop2": 123
};

New Properties can be added to object directly.
Objects can have methods.

dot and square bracket operator:

There are two ways to access the property of an object:
1) Dot operator
2) Sqaure Bracket Operator

In general, Dot operator is used to access the property of any object. But, there are situations where you can't use a Dot Operator and then you have to use the Square Bracket Operator:
Use the [] notation when property name,
1) is a reserved keyword/invalid identifier.
2) starts with a number.
3) is Dynamic.
Note: Runtime Engine may not be able to optimize the [] notation.

Dot and [] notation can be interchanged.

We can use a mix and match combination of dot and bracket for Nested Objects.

Two objects are equal iff they are pointing to the same memory location.
Equality is checked with === operator.

Undefined vs. Null

Undefined: Not initializing with a value.
For example:
var greeting;

Null: Initializing with a Non value.
For example:
var greeting = null;

Note: If a property or variable is required to hold an empty value only, explicitly initialize with a null.

To remove a property from an Object use the delete keyword.
for Example:
delete person.age // this will remove the age property of the person object.

Arrays in js:

Arrays in js are javascript objects.
indexing starts with 0.
a length property is associated with each Array object.
elements in Array are accessed with [] operator.
length function does not count the no of elements in the array instead it checks the last numeric index and increment it with 1 and return it.
Non numeric index can also be passed to the array object, but should never be passed.

Note: to make an Array work like an Array , always use numeric indexes and use a series of numbers instead of random numbers to keep track of the number of records present in the Array.

To add an element to an Array use below sytax:
myArray[5]= "I am the sixth one";

to get the length of an Array:
myArray.length

Wrapper Objects:

In js, four primitive type (string, number, boolean, symbol(version 6)) is associated with a corresponding Wrapper Object.

for example:
var greeting = "Hello, good Morning !";
greeting.length;

When calling length on the string primitive type, js takes that string and creates a temporary wrapper object with a length property associated with it, and returns the length of the value and discards the object.




